So let's have a look at whether
the commands that are necessary to create
and do a multipart upload in Amazon S3.
So to do so, I'm going to use CloudShell.
CloudShell is a way to get a terminal in AWS
that's going to be already set up with your account.
So that's perfect.
It has your credentials and your permissions.
Next we're going to actually go and create a file,
create a bucket, and so on.
So you do copy this file from S3-advanced,
multipart-upload.sh.
And what you're going to do
is that you're going to create first a bucket.
So name whatever bucket you want,
for example, multipartuploadstephandemo,
and of course the bucket name needs not to be taken.
So then we'll do aws s3 mb to make a bucket.
And then we pass in the bucket name.
So this bucket has been created
and if I go into my buckets in here
and I find the bucket by name, I find it right here.
Okay, so my bucket is created
and currently there are no objects in it.
So next we're going to do
is that we're going to create a large file.
Now a large is going to be 100 megabytes,
not keep it too large, but you get the idea.
And so this command, dd, just generates a file
that is going to be exactly 100 megabytes.
So now we have this file and we're good to go.
So if I list my files doing ll,
as you can see there's 100 megabytes
for the file named 100MB.txt.
So that's perfect.
Next, we're going to split that file into parts.
So imagines it's a big file
and you want to split it in to many parts,
you can use the split command.
And this split command in the way I set it up is
that it is going to divide it in blobs of 35 megabytes.
And so these 35 megabytes
are not going to be three times equal.
So the first two are going to be equal.
They will have the same size, but then the last one
will be smaller because well my file is only 100 megabytes
and not exactly 3 times 35 megabytes.
So we have our three parts and they're named
100MP_part_aa, part_ab, and then part_ac.
So now that we have different parts,
we can upload them into Amazon S3 with a multipart upload.
So to do so first we need to create a multipart upload.
So let's paste this command in, and we're good to go.
So we have initiated a multipart upload.
As you can see, the target key is the name file
that will write to our S3 bucket,
so it's the same that I have on my computer right here.
And the upload ID is something you need to keep
because this represents the ID
that we will use to upload each parts.
So what you can do is that you can take this upload ID,
you copy it in your text file,
and then you're going to paste this so that you would
define the variable in our terminal called UploadId.
Okay, so we're good.
Now we have the upload ID done.
So now we can actually see if we have initiated
a multipart upload using
the s3api list-multipart-uploads command.
And as you can see all the commands
so far we're using is aws s3api.
Just before we use s3 to create a bucket,
but then to do the multipart upload
it is the s3api command.
Okay, so we list the multipart upload.
As we can see one upload is pending, it is been initiated.
This is the key.
This is the upload ID, and we're good to go.
So let's go ahead and actually upload each part.
Now when you upload the part
you specify the target buckets,
you specify the key,
and then you specify the part number,
and the body of the part.
So the part number is going to be 1, 2, 3.
And then the body itself is going to correspond
to the splits that we have created from before.
So part_aa, part_ab, and part_ac.
So let's upload one part in here.
And then I'm going to upload a second part.
And I'm going to upload a third part.
Now don't clear your screen, just leave it like this.
And if I go into my S3 bucket now and refresh
we currently don't see any objects.
That's because the parts don't appear in the console UI.
The parts are not yet objects.
So how do we view the parts?
Well, we can do a s3api list-parts,
and then we specify the upload ID, and it's going
to give us the list of the parts for our stuff.
So as you can see, we have part one, part two, part three.
We have the ETag and the size and so on.
So this is awesome because now that we have the parts
we can actually go ahead and complete the multipart upload.
So I could upload as many parts as needed.
And all those parts are going to be combined
by Amazon S3.
But of course I know I'm done
because I have uploaded each part individually.
So how do we complete this multipart upload?
Then you do this command right here.
And you have to specify here the parts.
So we paste this in.
And what we have to do now is to replace the ETags.
So the ETag one right here has to be replaced
by the ETag one right here.
We paste it in, that's one ETag and that's part number one.
This is the little manual part we have to do.
The EAG two is here.
We paste it in.
And I have the wrong one, so let's try again.
So I'll take this one right here.
And I will paste it in.
And finally, the ETag three.
I will take this one.
Nope, wrong command again.
I will remove it.
And finally paste it in.
Let's press Enter.
And there's a dot that shouldn't be here.
And now as you can see this multipart upload get completed
and we have completed it.
So if I have a look at the list-multipart-uploads
I shouldn't see anything anymore.
Yes, there are no more.
And if I go into my S3 bucket, refresh my object,
here is my 100 megabyte text file.
It says 95.4 because it was actually 100 just bytes itself.
But don't worry about this, this is expected.
We're good to go.
So we have completed the multipart upload.
We've seen all the commands.
Remember is the aws s3api.
We've seen the process to do so.
Now, if you don't want to be billed
for this 100 megabyte file that has nothing in it
then just permanently delete it.
And then you can also delete the underlying S3 buckets.
Alright, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.